# Intelligent call routing: optimizing contact center throughput

In recent years, most companies now interact with their customers for business purposes through contact or call centers. Substantially, customers now perceive a company through their interaction with Customer Services Representatives in their centers. The CSR has become the key role and channel in maintaining brand reputation and ensuring customer retention. Explicitly, in a contact center environment, Customer and CSR are the two main transactional entities, and business development depends on their interaction. Contact center management routinely adopts numerous processes to enhance centre services by training their CSRs, call recording for quality monitoring, acquiring customer feedback after the call, and assessing similar factors. However, these factors are often inadequate in advancing the customer experience, due to operational scale and being exclusively focused on the telephone as the medium for interaction. Every contact center strives to maximize its value through, improved customer satisfaction, retention, and first call resolution; and minimized communication expenditures, for example, call handling time or talk time. Smart call routing can manage these improvements to enhance overall customer experience, leading to sales and maintaining quality of service.
 
A call outcome in contact center environment is most typically random, like flipping a coin, to tell whether a call achieves a sale or not. This random outcome can be made more certain if predicted and optimized by exploiting personal chemistry as a critical factor. Fortunately, contact centers are more controlled environments within which to gain psychographic and demographic insights to gauge customer/CSR chemistry.
 
This paper proposes that descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive analytical techniques can be applied to psychographic and demographic insights; to find the ideal mapping between them. By using those techniques, the model shows a ten to fifteen percent improvement in call-outcomes.

This system is an implementation of 
<a href="https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Abbas_Ali18/publication/238041930_Intelligent_call_routing_Optimizing_contact_center_throughput/links/546ef6460cf2b5fc17608c9c/Intelligent-call-routing-Optimizing-contact-center-throughput.pdf">Ali, A. R. Intelligent call routing: optimizing contact center throughput. In Proceedings of the Proceedings of the Eleventh International Workshop on Multimedia Data Mining, January 2009.</a>
